well the war on Gaza has taken a severe
toll on journalists with the number of
casualties only rising at least 31
journalists have been killed since
October the 7th 29 of them were
Palestinian four were Israeli and one of
them Lebanese numerous journalists have
been injured with nine reported missing
or detained not only are journalists
being targeted themselves but also their
families alzer's own while alu's wife
son daughter and Grandson were killed in
Israeli strikes well let's speak to
Sheriff Mansour about this he the Middle
East and North Africa Program
Coordinator at the committee to protect
journalists he's joining us from
Washington DC good to have you with us
Sheriff Gaza was not a great place for
journalists even before October the 7th
and it's only gotten worse for them ever
since unfortunately we have been
documenting past Gaza Wars and the to
talk and over the course of 21 years we
counted 13 journalists killed in Gaza
out of 20 overall we have
already exceeded double that number in
three weeks and unfortunately the
majority the absolute majority are
Palestinians because they were basically
the first one on the front lines they
have no exit or safety Haven and many of
them have reported not just losing
family uh colleagues who also were
killed with their amilies in their homes
um so the of course this is
unprecedented for this region for this
conflict but also worldwide since we
started documenting cases of kill
journalists in
1992 you say Palestinian journalists
were the only ones on the front lines
the first ones on the front lines but
they are also the only ones on the front
lines right now because Israel is not
letting anyone into Gaza of course is
Israel deliberately targeting these
journalists these Palestinian
journalists in Gaza and their
families we cannot verify that
independently we are still investigating
circumstances of each of those cases
we're tracking life the
casualties for obvious reason about
safety for journalists who continue to
cover from there and who are fling to
the region right now to cover how risky
it is but uh we have our de Bas and in
each of these cases we explain from as
much firsthand sources families
colleagues media Outlets those
circumstances and to our comparison we
only say journalist is murdered if we
can prove a lot of evidence including
past threats tracking and targeting and
other ways and that in the previous Wars
out of the 20 journalist that we said
were killed covering the conflict by IDF
fire only three we classified as murder
including sh AB last year and Y M and
mahm abusse in 2018 when they were
covering the Gaza
protest what is significant about this
current conflict and its coverage is
that you know in previous escalations in
previous Wars some foreign journalists
were allowed into G it's not the case
anymore why is that
[Music]
unfortunately we have been seeing a
dwindling number of international media
and international journalists in Gaza
over the years because at every past
Gaza Wars media Outlets were bombed by
Israeli air strikes in
2014 and just two years ago we saw Al
jaaz and press building and at least uh
18 other Palestinian media Outlets being
bombed to the ground and of course the
fact that no one was held accountable in
all of the journalist killing that 20
not just
shakla and the fact that no one was held
accountable for bombing these media
offices have changed the calculus about
the risk for a lot of international
media organization International
journalists to be there Sheriff mans
thank you for talking to us about this
Sheriff Mansour is the middle eastern
North Africa Program Coordinator at cpj
the committee to protect journalists
thank you for your
time thank
you